R package `pmut` is a collection of utility functions that facilitate general predictive modeling work. 
Function usages include but not limited to diagnostic visualization, model metric, data quality check.


## Installation
Development version:
```r
devtools::install_github("chengjunhou/pmut")
```


## Documentation
Pacakge vignette is available on [RPubs](https://rpubs.com/chengjunhou/pmut-vignt).


## Usage Description

- `pmut.edap.cont`: this function creates visualization with a line plot of a specified continuous feature against the response, 
plus a distribution histogram for that feature.

- `pmut.edap.disc`: this function creates visualization with a line plot of a specified discrete feature against the response,
plus a distribution histogram for that feature.

- `pmut.edap`: this function creates visualization for a vector of features, using either `pmut.edap.disc` or `pmut.edap.cont`,
depending on the feature class.

- `pmut.data.pmis`: this function checks percenrage of NA (include empty string for character) for every column inside the data.

- `pmut.data.same`: this function checks if there is any duplicated column inside the data.

- `pmut.data.scal`: this function standardizes every numeric column inside the data.

- `pmut.base.find`: this function finds the meta information for each column within training data,
which will be used to process testing and/or new data so that it can be scored without error,
check `pmut.base.prep` for the part of testing data processing.

- `pmut.base.prep`: this function takes meta information generated by `pmut.base.find`, 
prepares new data so that it can be scored without error.

- `pmut.auc`: this function calculates area under the ROC curve for model prediction, without any package dependency.

- `pmut.gini`: this function calculates the standardized gini coefficient for model prediction.


